Successful Database/ Cloud / Solutions Architect with Global Corporate Experience
------------------------------------------------------



Possess an in-depth knowledge and understanding of all stages of software development life cycle (SDLC). Experienced at developing and supporting database/automation solutions.
Skilled at developing and implementing reporting and data solutions.
Proven background improving process quality and providing system automation. 
Manage solutions and data efficiently using today’s newest, most stable technologies.
Maintain open constructive communications and working relationships at all business levels.

TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY

Languages: 		HTML, CSS, T-SQL, PHP, XML, Apex, JavaScript and similar languages, and new 
languages developed on a daily basis
Databases: 		Microsoft SQL 2000/2005, MySQL, Microsoft Access, Cloud Technologies 
(force.com)
Operating Systems: 	Windows XP, Vista, 7 Windows 2000 Server, Linux
Applications: 		Web Servers (IIS, Apache), advanced use of Adobe Master Collection, FTP 
Management, Proprietary Applications.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Interval International 								   	Miami, FL 
Technical Lead - CRM Systems Development 				June 2014 – February 2016
Original project that was loosely established was: A Full Cloud Integration from Legacy and other systems (apis, etl, txt, inner-application extraction) to the Salesforce Platform/Force Framework  one department at a time beginning with marketing, specifically 5000+ marketing offer updates to the live site as i doubled as R+D, and Current Offer maintenance. Infor CRM
Suite v7 to v10 upgrade
Vendor /partner Documentation and optimization from Infor. 
Allow proper Integration and Internal corporate compliance.
Analysis and optimization and upgrade Marketing Offer Data to real time BI system.
Local Oracle Server> ETL (informatica)> AS400 process Analysis
Process optimization for marketing affiliate data sharing.
Global Business process and product Analysis for upgrade purposes.
Hands-on CRM, ERP, ETL Frameworks for cloud integrations:
Exploration
Documentation 
Discovery
Prototype testing and data QA
Data integration Factors and designs.
Testing each vendor's solutions and offerings.
Align business need with technology
Integrate / Design / Optimise / Reports for Company-wide Business intelligence with frameworks and BPMs for the full product lifecycle(Customer, Account, Product Data.)

Telefonica										       Miami, FL 
Lead CRM Systems Developer	             			 		            June 2010 - April 2013
Develop, plan, implement a sales CRM system for a global telecommunications company for all users including but not limited to: Pre-sales, Sales, Post-Sales, Support, Customers, etc.
Lead meetings with global users to assess user need
Meet with business development to assess business needs.
Develop Multiple Projects with Salesforce and Visualforce from beginning to end
Plan processes, Plan development, Plan Implementation
Assess outsource / in-house development
Assess, test, recommend, and install software for usage.
Create data applications/connections/reports between multiple countries and data-types for review by non-technical executives.
Data management
Process data from legacy sources (excel, TXT, XML, CSV, etc..)
Normalise, Analyze, Interpret, Import, Manipulate, Broadcast all types of data within the company for enhancement, optimization, aggregation purposes.
Report Management
Create, Analyze, Develop new and intuitive reporting using new web technologies and legacy data.
Develop Documentation for all projects.

Global Restaurant Equipment 								        Miami, FL
Systems Consultant 							        February 2009 - Dec 2009
Utilised MySQL to manage, modify and update online product data for a restaurant equipment company.
eBay Store maintenance including data modification and optimization
Managed the Internet Marketing for a restaurant equipment company
Created and directed all Internet & print marketing advertisements.

MerchantAdvantage									        Miami, FL
Senior Software Developer 					                        October 2005-June 2008
Validated, normalized and trouble-shoot proprietary shopping cart data exports.
Deciphered specifications from technical Marketing channels
Relayed complex ideas to programmers for software upgrades.
Managed weekly webinar planning and presentations about marketing and software usage.
Administered pre-sale demonstrations via phone, screen-cast webinars, and industry conventions.
Planned, designed, and implemented application database code objects, such as stored procedures and views for use in proprietary software processes
Built and maintained SQL scripts and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.
Performed quality assurance and testing of SQL server in a software development environment.
Developed new processes to facilitate data import and normalisation.
Worked with business stakeholders, application developers, and production teams and across functional units to identify business needs and discuss solution options.
Supported all production operation activities, with focus on integration and development of new and existing products and services.
Acted as project manager to create development teams to identify and implement reporting, control, and automation opportunities to improve overall access to information.
Utilised SQL reporting services on SQL 2005 to create XML data that was used for customer analytics and tracking mechanisms
Assisted new and existing clients with integration and data conversion activities.
Identified data issues and provided recommendations for resolution to ensure optimal performance.
Worked with internal and external clients for import and normalisation of third-party data using DTS and SSIS packages.
Documented and maintained database system specifications, diagrams, and charts.
Monitored and provided front-line support of daily processes.

EDUCATION / CERTIFICATIONS

Barry University, Miami Shores, FL								       
Bachelor of Science - Computer Science 							  

CRM Certified Developer 401 (Salesforce)

DEV Platform Developer I						  
